# 2020-05-09
Phil Linden
Dan Mitchell
Matt Glazer

## Project structure

Assign "project leads" for each area of the project.
- Leads drive progress, reality check scope and timelines
- Ownership of a project gives people a better idea for what to work on or who
  is responsible
- Dan wants structure and leadership because he needs it to work efficiently
  and wants to address 

Look into setting up JIRA: https://www.atlassian.com/software/jira/pricing?_ga=2.11697204.1239512538.1589051892-185300900.1589051892

## Concept selection
Want a systematic way to decide a concept, accounting for emotional criteria 
like novelty.
- Here's the criteria
  - each person weight importance of each category for them. eg some people 
  - each person also score projects in each category for them
- Normalize the results, then average the scores
  - One with and one without personal preference
- Everyone's scores are also weighted by their commitment?
  - Self reported time commitment per week/month and include that in weighting
    individual's scores?
- Three selection matrices
  - Only objective
  - Objective and subjective criteria
  - Objective and subjective, weighted by commitment

Mission Design
- We should give ideas and reference missions another pass (it's been a while
  plus new people)
  - Put out a poll
- Use selection matrix to select the best _experiments_
  - Take the top ranked experiments and design a mission around that
  - (Use existing reference missions as templates)

### ACTION
1. Solicit help in #alumni, including time commitment
   1. How much would you commit per week/month? Self goal, honest commitment
   2. Set up actual sprints? Include twice a month recurring meetings
2. Put out a request for input on experiment ideas and mission ideas
3. Put out a request for input on selection criteria
4. Get on a call and work out reference missions

## ACTION
- Put meeting notes in the repo, reserve the website for deliverables/outputs.
- Create a page for Resources. 
  - Maybe add to the Contribute page
  - Link to meeting notes and other things
  - Link to Jira

## What selection criteria?
Objective criteria
- Cost
- Feasibility?
  - Time to complete, like total engineering hours
  - Complexity
    - Technological level of difficulty/complexity
      - Industry vs hobbyist? Where do we fall on the spectrum. 
        Industry/professional is better
  - Size weight and power (SWaP)
- How well does this set us up for future experiments and projects? 
  (HWDTSUUFFEAP)
  - Is there a word for the opposite of engineering heritage?
  - Potential for future projects
  - Flexibility
    - Only used in HABs?
    - Can be used in other projects that are very different (like rockets)
      - For example, a project with ACS or cold gas thrusters or real time
        telemetry


Subjective criteria
- Learning and Development
  - Learning opportunities across disciplines
- Difficulty
  - The subjective component of complexity
  - Level of refinement in execution
- Novelty
  - Is it impressive?
  - Is it cool?
  - Is it new?
  - Scientific value potential

## Involvement with RIT SPEX?
- SPEX students mentored (almost as interns?)
  - NOPE Don't want to take away from SPEX projects
  - Also this is for us
- Don't bring it up with SPEX

## ACTION ITEMS
- Solicit help in slack
- Build resources page
  - How is the team structured?
  - How is work structured?
    - Jira, GitHub, docs
- Make poll
  - experiment ideas
  - mission ideas
  - concept selection criteria
  - time committment