# 2020-05-10
Phil Linden
Dan Mitchell
Matt Glazer

## Agenda
- Survey and interest
    - Discuss results
- Jira
- Rockets?

## Survey results
https://forms.gle/jEudqDD1d41CS5Lr7

### People
All responses show interest. Matt, Dan, Phil, Austin B, Drew W.
Dylan W and James P also expressed interest but have not responded to the
survey.

### HAB vs Rocket vs Other
4 HAB, 3 Rocket, no other.
5 responses, so one person did not vote for any?
- Dan put just rockets, Phil and Matt put both so that's 3 for rockets
- The rest of the responses did just HAB.

### Time commitment
- Median: 4 hrs/week
- Mean: 3.5 hrs/week

It's good that the median and mean are close together, and close to what we
expected.

### Personal goals
The list of goals we got months ago is still accurate.

Bottom line:
- Do cool stuff
- Do stuff that you can't do at work
- Do stuff well

### Selection criteria
Takeaways:
- Complexity is targeted and limited
- Novelty/uniqueness and interestingness is important
- It is important to be able to have a reasonable chance of finishing

### Experiment ideas
- satellite communications (starlink high bandwidth, Iridium packets, etc)
- grid fin stabilization
- Video encoding with a raw sensor input
- Live video and data streaming
- SDR-based radar altimeter
- Super sick ground station with a beautiful UI and solid telemetry depth
- rust mcu avionics

## JIRA
https://terrahab.atlassian.net/

Right now
- Engineering - which is everything thats not PM or DOC
- Documentation - can be in parallel to engineering, includes site docs and 
  schematics etc
- Project Mgmt - sys eng and admin related things like setting up tools

Add new ticket types/projects as needed -> EE or MECH etc

It looks like a lot but its not! Don't sweat it.

Change documentation to be a ticket type in every project

## Rockets
- If we want to do a rocket eventually, why not start now?
  - Well, would we want to build the whole rocket or just a payload?
  - Where is the real interest at?
    - Phil: Making the rocket _do_ something, not manufacturing/assembly
      - Actuators, command and control, telemetry and sensors, controls
      - HAB vs Rocket is a flea market vs rock concert
      - HABs are the safer option. Better chances of success.
    - Dan: Avionics. Rockets have much more interesting/challenging
      environment.
      - Doing a _custom_ rocket (rather than a kit) is the
        interesting bit.
      - Doing rocket tech, especially propulsion and controls, sets us up better
        for future projects.
    - Matt: Building a rocket would be cool but being a distributed team makes
      that a little less feasible (can't drive to LA every weekend). The
      interest comes from just more excited about rockets than HABs.
  - Launch site (FAR) is nearby, there are groups interested in the
    assembly and construction. Maybe we could work together with them... 
- Tier 1 project would be a fully fledged avionics platform. Telemetry, command
  and control, etc.
  - Could be shared with HAB tech
  - This is bare bones requirement for a rocket to fly
- Phil: The satisfaction of rockets is in the launch
- Dan & Matt: the things worked on (at least in avionics) are applicable to both
- What mission experiments could we do that translate between HAB and rocket?
  - Thrust vectoring is interesting. Could we have cold gas RCS on the HAB?
    - Roll stabilization would be the same for a HAB and a rocket
    - On descent, stabilization would also be the same for both
    - Other thrust vectoring and stabilization is good for propulsive landing
- Only Phil, Dan, and Matt expressed wanting to do a rocket, but so far we're
  the only ones super interested in doing work so far.

## Future meetings
Sundays at noon for now. 

## ACTIONS
- **Phil** to add descriptions to the selection criteria we already thought of 
  based on responses from the survey
- **Phil** to add new experiment ideas to the list
- **Phil** to change documentation to be a ticket type in every jira project
  and remove the DOC project
- **Phil** to update the mission concepts page "Controlled Descent" entry with
  ideas about roll stabilization and other rocket crossovers.
- **Dan** to update the slack with a summary of discussions here
