# Design Requirements

TerraMICRO's technical design is driven by making engineering decisions
to meet the design requirements listed in this section. All of these
requirements must be met before the mission takes flight, with test data
to prove it.

By designing the vehicle to meet a set of requirements, we hold our
engineering decisions accountable and resist the temptations of scope
creep and "cool factor."

When we, as a team, elect to override one of these requirements, we will
commit to providing justification for doing so (even if the reason is
*because we thought it would be more fun this way* or *because we
couldn't afford to buy the parts needed to do it right.*)

## Critical Design Requirements

Regardless of the mission objectives, the HAB system must meet several
key design requirements in order to achieve mission success. These
requirements serve as success criteria and also as constraints to the
design trade space.

Some requirements are non-negotiable, such as [FCC or FAA regulations](https://www.ecfr.gov/cgi-bin/text-idx?rgn=div5&node=14:2.0.1.3.15#sp14.2.101.d)
for unmanned free balloons and other basic functions to ensure a safe,
controlled flight. Other requirements may come from limitations related
to cost, manufacturability, which stem from the TerraHAB organization's
own budgets. These critical requirements supercede any mission or design
requirements that contribute to meeting the mission's objectives.

## Mission Success Criteria

The objectives listed in this section provide the basis for TerraHAB's
criteria for success and drive all other mission requirements. These
objectives steer the vision and end goals for the mission and every
subsystem or feature in the end result should support at least one of
these objectives.

### Stretch Goals

There are several design features that are specific requests from
TerraHAB engineers. The flight system should meet these requests or
provide justification for not including them. These features are not
required for mission success, but it is expected that the TerraHAB team
strives to accomplish these goals.

## System Requirements

The intent of this specification is to quantify and control the criteria
by which mission success is defined, and to provide traceability to each
subsystem's performance to ensure mission success is achieved by the
vehicle's design.

!!! note
    All of the systems demonstrated by this mission shall be thoroughly
    tested on the ground prior to launch. Flight data and telemetry recorded
    during the flight should be consistent with behavior observed during
    testing.

### Avionics

### Power

### Flight Software

### Telemetry

### Recovery

### Payload Bus & Interfaces

### Instruments & Sensors

### Altitude Regulation
