# TerraMICRO

This is the documentation homepage for TerraMICRO, Mission 1 of the TerraHAB
Project.

The documentation here logs our ideas, designs, and decisions through the
design process from concept selection to post-flight analysis.

!!! tip "Want to help?"
    For more information on how to contribute to TerraMICRO or join the
    TerraHAB team, see the **[Contribute](contribute.md)** page.

    - **GitHub**: [github.com/TerraHAB/TerraMICRO](https://github.com/TerraHAB/TerraMICRO)
    - **JIRA**: [terrahab.atlassian.net](https://terrahab.atlassian.net/)

## What is TerraHAB?

TerraHAB is a group of engineers who are passionate about aerospace. The
group formed in November 2018 as an outlet for alumni members of the
student-faculty research group RIT Space Exploration (SPEX) to continue
doing space-related engineering projects.

TerraHAB's mission is to do novel things with accesible hardware, share
the knowledge gained along the way, and set an example of excellence for
similar hobby projects.

## Why a High Altitude Balloon?

High Altitude Balloons (HABs) are low-cost, low-risk vehicles that are
the perfect platform for conducting small scale atmospheric studies,
remote sensing, and other experiments that make use of the "edge of
space" conditions found at altitudes in excess of 65,000 feet above sea
level. Atmospheric conditions in the stratosphere are fairly well
understood insofar as the humidity, temperatures, and pressures that
must be weathered by a flight platform. More specifically, ambient
temperatures and pressures between 65,000--100,000, feet altitude see
extremes of -60C and 0.05 atm respectively.

This opens the door for generic or payload-agnostic HAB platforms
designed to carry an experiment or instruments in conditions that
approximate space. One such platform is an avionics architecture called
[µHAB](https://github.com/RIT-Space-Exploration/µHAB), which is
specifically designed to be a robust and all-inclusive avionics package
for HAB vehicles. The [Technology Readiness
Level](https://esto.nasa.gov/technologists_trl.html) of µHAB is TRL 2 as
of November 2018.

## What is TerraMICRO?

TerraMICRO is a high altitude balloon technology demonstration mission.
The key objectives of this mission are to validate the µHAB avionics
architecture, experiment with core technologies which enable long
duration flights, and collect high quality images from high altitudes.
As a technology demonstrator, TerraMICRO flight systems designed to be
generic in order to support any future missions. TerraHAB has selected
long duration flights as a target for future missions, and as such many
of the systems beyond the core avionics are building blocks toward this
goal. At the time of launch, µHAB should be TRL 3, and upon the
successful completion of the TerraMICRO mission this architecture will
be TRL 5.
